RE: Update for the paper to ISWC 2015 (deadline 10th of April)
Neil Cooke
Sent: 	Thursday, April 09, 2015 10:34 PM
To: 	
Miguel Perez Xochicale; Christopher Baber
Hi Miguel,

Here is my part for the paper (I didn't receive your latest draft so assume you are still working on it!)

You will probably need to change some of the terms I've used to fit your own explanations.

I've been on holiday this week and will be in London tomorrow, but send me an email if you need clarification and I'll try to reply.

Regards
Neil.


The raw signals generated by the IMUs worn by the dancer contain variation.
This variation has three primary sources. Some of it can be explained by the expert dance. 
Some of it is explained as deviations from this dance by beginners or other dance styles. 
Finally, some may be simply inherent sensor noise.
 
The aim in this work is to measure dexterity in dance and we approach this problem by attempting 
to isolate explanations for variance due to the expert dance and deviations from it. 
To do this, the IMU signals are presented in a canonical basis that represents the non-linear dynamics 
of the dance.
 
The raw IMU signals represented in their original canonical basis contain no information 
regarding the structure of dance i.e. its non-linear dynamics. Taken's theorem can be used to 
generate the requisite embedded m-dimensional subspace to capture these non-linear dynamics. 
The theorem requires selecting optimum parameters for lag/dimensionality (m) and period (tau) 
with respect to maximising the variance in the principal components. 
 
Variance explaining the expert dance via its non linear dynamics is concentrated in the principal 
components and has a characteristic distribution. Correspondingly, for IMU signals captured 
from a beginners attempt at the dance, a reduction in variance should be observed in the 
principal components and/or change in distribution.


